README.md, before:

# memory-game
A memory game, much like Simon, powered by VueJS and Laravel.


### Project Setup
- After cloning the repo, run `composer install` & `npm install`.
- Clone the `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`. Switch the `DB_*` variables there to match your environment.
- Run `php artisan key:generate`.
- Run `php artisan migrate` to setup the database.
- Run `npm run dev` to compile the assets.
- The game should be ready to run. If you are getting errors, please open an issue.


### Time Tracking

 - Project Directory Setup and Styling: 2 hours
 - Vue Component Coding: 4 hours
 - Researching: 2 hours
 - Adding Back End and API calls: 1 hour


#### Given More Time...

- Styling / UI could be optimized
- Sounds effects added when a user clicks a choice
- Discover more options for / optimize the `roundSimulate()` and `executeRound()` methods in the Vue model
- Add a 'Full Leaderboard' that shows ALL scores from database ( currently top 5 displayed )


### View Core Files
- [Vue Component](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/resources/assets/js/components/GameBoard.vue)
- [Stylesheet](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/resources/assets/sass/gameboard.scss)
- [Score API Controller](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/app/Http/Controllers/API/ScoreApiController.php)
- [Score Model](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/app/Score.php)

Commit message:

updated the .env example to match my local setup and more docs in README

README.md, after:

# memory-game
A memory game, much like Simon, powered by VueJS and Laravel.


### Project Setup
- After cloning the repo, run `composer install` & `npm install`.
- Clone the `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`. Switch the `DB_*` variables there to match your environment.
- Run `php artisan key:generate`.
- Run `php artisan migrate` to setup the database. ( Or import SQL file from /backups )
- Run `npm run dev` to compile the assets.
- The game should be ready to run. If you are getting errors, please open an issue.


### Time Tracking

 - Project Directory Setup and Styling: 2 hours
 - Vue Component Coding: 4 hours
 - Researching: 2 hours
 - Adding Back End and API calls: 1 hour

### View Core Files
- [Vue Component](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/resources/assets/js/components/GameBoard.vue)
- [Stylesheet](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/resources/assets/sass/gameboard.scss)
- [Score API Controller](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/app/Http/Controllers/API/ScoreApiController.php)
- [Score Model](https://github.com/TaylorFoster90/memory-game/blob/master/app/Score.php)


### Summary of Project

The biggest obstacle I ran into is if the simulation chose the same choice twice in a row ( ex: Green, Yellow, Blue, Blue ), the back-to-back choice would appear as if it were lagging instead of making a clear 'pulse' twice, leading the user to think there was a bug. I was able to find a solution to make it 'pulse', thus making the game more user friendly. Using `localStorage` was unexpectedly very simple to use and I was able to read some docs for a few minutes and then implement it. Adding the back end was the least time consuming because of my familiarity with Laravel, while figuring out all the logic for the game took the most time. Overall, I had a blast building this project and the scope ended up being exactly what I had imagined.


#### Given More Time...

- Styling / UI could be optimized
- Sounds effects added when a user clicks a choice
- Discover more options for / optimize the `roundSimulate()` and `executeRound()` methods in the Vue model
- Add a 'Full Leaderboard' that shows ALL scores from database ( currently top 5 displayed )
